README.md, before:

# ovensensorweb

## Overview

This repository contains a Django tutorial project directory, 'mysite'. There is one app in the project, named 'polls'. The Django tutorial was completed up to and including part 05:
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/intro/tutorial01/

This repository is planned to be integrated into chrisxkeith's repository of the same name.

## Tools Dependencies and Installation Instructions

### Install Python3

Download and install Python 3 for your platform:
https://www.python.org/downloads/

Python 3.7 was used during the Django tutorial.

### Set up your virtual environment

__Note:__ The pyvenv script has been deprecated as of Python 3.6 in favor of using python3 -m venv to help prevent any potential confusion as to which Python interpreter a virtual environment will be based on.

Virtual environments are typically created on each user's PC and are not added to source control.

Issue this command _outside of_ any local repository directory (I recommend the parent directory of the repository directory), so that your new virtual environment won't be added to source control. We'll call our virtual environment 'my-env':

	$ python3 -m venv /path/to/new/virtual/environment
	or just
	$ python3 -m venv my-venv

### Activate your virtual environment (venv)

Do this from _within_ the mysite project directory:

	$ source ../my-venv/bin/activate

You should now see a command-line prompt that is pre-pended with the name of the virtual environment:

	(my-venv) $ ls
	
__Note:__ It is possible and sometimes advisable to have two instances of the same virtual environment, within two separate terminal windows (aka command prompt or cmd.exe on Windows). See more on this below, under 'Running the Django Server'.

### Install Additional Python packages

__Note:__ pip is the preferred package installer program for Python. Starting with Python 3.4, it is included by default with the Python binary installers.

Feel free to use pip to install any packages that you like. The only additional package we need for the Django tutorial is Django itself. To install:

	(my-env) $ python3 -m pip install django

Feel free to skip ahead to the next section if you don't want any additional optional packages or updates.

I also like the following package, which can give pop-up tips and extra color-coding while in the Python interactive shell:

	(my-env) $ python3 -m pip install bpython

The version of pip included with Python might be out-of-date. You can optionally update pip with the following command:

	(my-venv) $ python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
	
Here's a before and after of pip versions:

	(my-venv) $ pip --version
	pip 10.0.1 from /Users/urieow/mygithub/my-venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)
	
	(my-venv) $ python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
	Collecting pip
	  Using cached https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/5f/25/e52d3f31441505a5f3af41213346e5b6c221c9e086a166f3703d2ddaf940/pip-18.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl
	Installing collected packages: pip
	  Found existing installation: pip 10.0.1
	    Uninstalling pip-10.0.1:
	      Successfully uninstalled pip-10.0.1
	Successfully installed pip-18.0

### Running the Django Server

One strength of the Django web framework is that it includes its own webserver and flexible database backend. To utilize this we must first run the server.

As with most Django-related commands (e.g. to create a Django project or application, etc.), we use manage.py, which was created at the root of our project directory, when we created the Django project.

You _must_ be inside the mysite project directory (e.g. mysite/mysite/...) You can tell which directory is the correct directory, because it will contain manage.py.

	(my-env) $ python manage.py runserver

__Note:__ If you intend to make changes to this Django project using the shell, or if you want to play with Django's interactive shell commands, it is recommended to use two separate terminal windows (cmd.exe on Windows). Run the Django server from the my-env virtual environment, as shown above, which will tie up this terminal, and display relevant Django server status information.

The Django server will continue to run until it is killed with Ctrl+C, or else some other error occurs (e.g. remove one or more critical project files).

### Viewing the Django Project

When you run the Django webserver, you will see an IP address (likely http://localhost:8000/polls). Copy this to your browser to see the polls application in our mysite project.

### Viewing the Django Admin Site

Paste the following into your browser:

	http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/
	
__Note:__ 127.0.0.1 is an alias for localhost


### References

Virtual Environments
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html?highlight=venv
Pip
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html
Markdown
https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/

Commit message:

Corrected Viewing the Django Project

README.md, after:

# ovensensorweb

## Overview

This repository contains a Django tutorial project directory, 'mysite'. There is one app in the project, named 'polls'. The Django tutorial was completed up to and including part 05:
https://docs.djangoproject.com/en/2.1/intro/tutorial01/

This repository is planned to be integrated into chrisxkeith's repository of the same name.

## Tools Dependencies and Installation Instructions

### Install Python3

Download and install Python 3 for your platform:
https://www.python.org/downloads/

Python 3.7 was used during the Django tutorial.

### Set up your virtual environment

__Note:__ The pyvenv script has been deprecated as of Python 3.6 in favor of using python3 -m venv to help prevent any potential confusion as to which Python interpreter a virtual environment will be based on.

Virtual environments are typically created on each user's PC and are not added to source control.

Issue this command _outside of_ any local repository directory (I recommend the parent directory of the repository directory), so that your new virtual environment won't be added to source control. We'll call our virtual environment 'my-env':

	$ python3 -m venv /path/to/new/virtual/environment
	or just
	$ python3 -m venv my-venv

### Activate your virtual environment (venv)

Do this from _within_ the mysite project directory:

	$ source ../my-venv/bin/activate

You should now see a command-line prompt that is pre-pended with the name of the virtual environment:

	(my-venv) $ ls
	
__Note:__ It is possible and sometimes advisable to have two instances of the same virtual environment, within two separate terminal windows (aka command prompt or cmd.exe on Windows). See more on this below, under 'Running the Django Server'.

### Install Additional Python packages

__Note:__ pip is the preferred package installer program for Python. Starting with Python 3.4, it is included by default with the Python binary installers.

Feel free to use pip to install any packages that you like. The only additional package we need for the Django tutorial is Django itself. To install:

	(my-env) $ python3 -m pip install django

Feel free to skip ahead to the next section if you don't want any additional optional packages or updates.

I also like the following package, which can give pop-up tips and extra color-coding while in the Python interactive shell:

	(my-env) $ python3 -m pip install bpython

The version of pip included with Python might be out-of-date. You can optionally update pip with the following command:

	(my-venv) $ python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
	
Here's a before and after of pip versions:

	(my-venv) $ pip --version
	pip 10.0.1 from /Users/urieow/mygithub/my-venv/lib/python3.7/site-packages/pip (python 3.7)
	
	(my-venv) $ python3 -m pip install --upgrade pip
	Collecting pip
	  Using cached https://files.pythonhosted.org/packages/5f/25/e52d3f31441505a5f3af41213346e5b6c221c9e086a166f3703d2ddaf940/pip-18.0-py2.py3-none-any.whl
	Installing collected packages: pip
	  Found existing installation: pip 10.0.1
	    Uninstalling pip-10.0.1:
	      Successfully uninstalled pip-10.0.1
	Successfully installed pip-18.0

### Running the Django Server

One strength of the Django web framework is that it includes its own webserver and flexible database backend. To utilize this we must first run the server.

As with most Django-related commands (e.g. to create a Django project or application, etc.), we use manage.py, which was created at the root of our project directory, when we created the Django project.

You _must_ be inside the mysite project directory (e.g. mysite/mysite/...) You can tell which directory is the correct directory, because it will contain manage.py.

	(my-env) $ python manage.py runserver

	Performing system checks...

	System check identified no issues (0 silenced).
	September 24, 2018 - 16:22:46
	Django version 2.1.1, using settings 'mysite.settings'
	Starting development server at http://127.0.0.1:8000/
	Quit the server with CONTROL-C.

__Note:__ If you intend to make changes to this Django project using the shell, or if you want to play with Django's interactive shell commands, it is recommended to use two separate terminal windows (cmd.exe on Windows). Run the Django server from the my-env virtual environment, as shown above, which will tie up this terminal, and display relevant Django server status information.

The Django server will continue to run until it is killed with Ctrl+C, or else some other error occurs (e.g. remove one or more critical project files).

### Viewing the Django Project

When you run the Django webserver, you will see an IP address (likely http://127.0.0.1:8000/). Copy this URL and paste it into your browser's address bar. Try loading the page and notice it fails. Append 'polls' the end of the URL (http://127.0.0.1:8000/polls/) and reload the page. You should now be seeing the polls app.

### Viewing the Django Admin Site

Paste the following into your browser:

	http://127.0.0.1:8000/admin/
	
__Note:__ 127.0.0.1 is an alias for localhost


### References

Virtual Environments
https://docs.python.org/3/library/venv.html?highlight=venv
Pip
https://docs.python.org/3/installing/index.html
Markdown
https://www.markdownguide.org/basic-syntax/
